---
date: 2025-07-17
author: H. Hernan Saez
---

- Continue working on the text encoder.
- I'm considering creating an `Identifiable` (alt: `Unique`, `UniquelyIdentifiable`) providing the abstraction for getting a UniqueID. This class should be part of the Crimild/Foundation package. Right now, `UniqueID` is part of Crimild/Coding and an internal type of `Codable` which doesn't make much sense anymore given the importance of having a tool for getting an unique ID for any object. 
- Also, should I use string-based UIDs?
- Add metadata to encoded files so we can use it later when decoding to create accurate loading progress output. For example, by indicating how many objects need to be loaded during encoding we can provide an estimate of how many objects are left to load when decoding.
- I'm dealing with a frustrating exception when trying to run one of the tests that uses `setName()`. Something is wrong here and I can't tell why. Neither is Copilot...


# TODO
- [ ] Text encoding
- [ ] Unit tests for memory decoder
- [ ] Text decoding
- [ ] Fix assembly file size increasing bug.
- [ ] Use unique IDs for nodes, links and pins. See comments [here](./20250701_hhsaez.md)
- [ ] Show pin's context menu (do I need this?)
- [ ] Move `Assembly` to `Crimild::Core`
- [ ] Add a transformation node to the Assembly graph
- [ ] Simplify `View` hierarchy. Just have a `draw()` virtual functional. Windows, Modals and other subclasses may include a `drawContent` as needed.
- [ ] Render File System in a splitter panel
- [ ] Handle object selection in Scene3D (maybe storing in the Assembly's Editable extension?)

# MAYBE
- [ ] Create `Identifiable` class. See comments [here](./20250717_hhsaez.md)
- [ ] Use string-based UIDs
