---
date: 2025-07-01
author: H. Hernan Saez
---

- I started working on showing the current entity context menu (i.e. when right-clicking it). I want to be able to delete entities or re-parent them. 
- The issue with assembly files getting bigger and bigger keeps happening and it's becoming annoying. It takes a really long time to reload an assembly after a while. I'm deleting the file and recreate the assembly when it happens, but I'm going to need to find the cause sooner rather than later.
- I just realized why I need to use different IDs for nodes, links and pins. I cannot use Crimild's UniqueID because it is possible for the same entity to appear more than once in the same graph. Consider the case where we have two Variable nodes pointing to the same entity as a way to decluter the graph. Also, it is possible that an entity is linked with more than one node. I need to refactor this in order to **decouple entities from their representation in the graph editor**.

# TODO
- [ ] Use unique IDs for nodes, links and pins. See comments [here](./20250701_hhsaez.md)
- [ ] Fix assembly file size increasing bug.
- [x] Show selected node's context menu
- [ ] Show link's context menu
- [ ] Show pin's context menu (?)
- [x] Allow deleting nodes
- [ ] Allow detaching nodes
- [ ] Allow re-parenting nodes
- [ ] Move `Assembly` to `Crimild::Core`
- [ ] Add a transformation node to the Assembly graph
- [ ] Simplify `View` hierarchy. Just have a `draw()` virtual functional. Windows, Modals and other subclasses may include a `drawContent` as needed.
- [ ] Render File System in a splitter panel
- [ ] Handle object selection in Scene3D (maybe storing in the Assembly's Editable extension?)

